It is hard to pick where to begin a memoir. Humans lives are not so neatly defined as a story or
a novel, all twists and turns with plotlines that disappear into thin air and conflicts that are
never quite adequately resolved.

For convenience sake, let's start this story on the day I received my doctorate at Oxford.

It was rainy that day, I remember. My sister and I shared an umbrella as we walked together through
the cobblestone streets. I had just been awarded my degree by the dissertation committee, and I was,
like many young men at that age, eager to visit the pub so that I could get smashed. The pub had
been full, overflowing with other students who were also quite ready and willing to celebrate
their end-of-school-year achievements. It was then, quite miraculously, that an opportunity fell
into my lap. I'd been drunk at that point, but the chance to find other mutants did the trick of
sobering me up.

In those days, mutation was not well-understood. I had always known that I was different, that there
were things about myself that set me apart from my peers. My interest in genetics has always been
about understanding myself first and foremost, of unraveling the secrets of my own gifts.  I had
only known one other mutant my whole life, Raven, my sister. I suspected, as a result of my research
that there were more of us out there, but I had never had the chance to seek them out and to create,
in some way, a shared identity between us.

I know that many of my students cannot imagine me as anything but what I am to them now, an old man,
one who has hopefully learned a bit of wisdom over the years. I doubt they would recognize my
younger self, as young and foolish as he was.

During my time at Oxford, I looked inwards, studying the X-gene in an attempt to make sense of what
sets us apart, and when I was offered a chance to look outwards, to search the world for more of us,
I leapt and never looked back. 

I am glad of it. I would not trade my life's work for the easier road. My students are nearer and
dearer to me than my own family ever was. I am reminded every day that mutantkind is just as broad
and diverse and wondrous as the humankind that gave birth to us. I know some who fear the future
that we will leave to our children, but I am not one of them. They are a bright and committed group
of individuals, and I believe in their ability to learn our mistakes and our failures. I write this
book not for myself but for them.
